---
title: "Static Generation (SG)"
date: "2023-06-19"
image: "static.jpg"
excerpt: "With static generation Next can pre-generate pages at build time, before the app is deployed..."
isFeatured: false
---

With Static Generation all pages are pre-generated when you build for production, before deploy. Since pre-built they can be cached by the server or cdn, serving the app instantly on request. This can be useful when you don't need to pre-render the page for every request, for example when you have a lot of content that are not prone to change frequently.

## getStaticProps()

An async function added to a page component that **"prepares" the props for your component**. You can run any code in here that would normally run on the server only and the code will not be included in the bundle sent back to your client.

```js
export async function getStaticProps() {
	const  = await fetch('https://.../....')
	const data = await res.json()
	return {
		props: { data },
	}
}
```

## Incremental Static Generation (ISR)

ISR Enables you to use static generation after you've built your site, on a per-page basis, without needing to rebuild the site. This is done by re-generating the static page on every request, at most every X seconds. The page will use the data returned from this function.

```js
export async function getStaticProps() {
	const  = await fetch('https://.../....')
	const data = await res.json()
	return {
		props: { data },
		/* Next will attempt to re-generate the page, */
        /* when a request comes in,  at most once every 10 seconds */
		revalidate: 10
	}
}

// ....

export default function Page(props) {
	const { someData } = props.data
  return (<div> { someData } </div>)
}
```

## getStaticPaths()

If a page has dynamic routes _([id].js)_ and uses **getStaticProps**, it needs to define a list of paths to be statically generated since it can in theory be an infinite amount. getStaticPaths will only run during build in production.

## How getStaticProps run with regards to getStaticPaths

If the property **fallback** is included and set to false, any paths not returned by getStaticPaths will result in a 404 page.

- getStaticProps runs during next build for any paths returned during build
- getStaticProps runs in the background when using fallback: true. Next pre-generates dynamic page not listed just in time when the req hits the server.
- getStaticProps is called before initial render when using fallback: blocking. Fully pre-generate page before serving.

```js
export async function getStaticPaths() {
  return {
    paths: [{ params: { pid: "p1" } }, { params: { pid: "p2" } }],
    fallback: false, // | 'true' | 'blocking'
  };
}
```
